The President: Hello, everybody.
This past week, we lost an
American icon and one of the
most influential figures of
her time - former First Lady
Nancy Reagan.
Born in New York City, and
raised mostly in Chicago,
Nancy Davis graduated from
Smith College in 1943.
As an actress, she
appeared in 11 films.
And off-screen, she starred
in a real-life Hollywood
romance with the love of
her life, Ronald Reagan,
whom she married in 1952.
As President, I know just
how important it is to have
a strong life partner, and
President Reagan was as
lucky as I am.
Nancy Reagan redefined the
role of First Lady
of the United States.
In addition to serving as
a trusted advisor to her
husband, and an elegant
hostess for our nation,
she was a passionate
advocate for issues that
touched the
lives of so many.
She raised awareness about
drug and alcohol abuse.
She was a staunch supporter
of America's veterans.
And after her own battle
with breast cancer and a
mastectomy, she spoke in
personal terms about the
need for women to
get mammograms.
The American people were
deeply moved by the love
Nancy felt for her husband.
And we were inspired by
how, in their long goodbye,
Nancy became a voice on
behalf of millions of
families experiencing
the depleting,
aching reality of
Alzheimer's disease.
She brought her
characteristic intelligence
and focus to the twin causes
of stem cell research and
Alzheimer's research.
And when I signed an order
to resume federal stem cell
research, I was proud that
she was one of the first
phone calls I made.
Nobody understood better
than Nancy Reagan the
importance of pursuing
treatments that hold the
potential and the promise
to improve and save lives.
That's why, last year, my
administration announced the
Precision Medicine
Initiative to advance our
ability to tailor health
care and treat diseases like
cancer and Alzheimer's by
accounting for individual
differences in people's
genes, environments,
and lifestyles.
Last month, we took new
actions to foster more
collaboration between
researchers, doctors,
patients, data systems,
and beyond to accelerate
precision medicine.
And more than 40
organizations stepped up
with new commitments in
this cutting-edge field.
We've also launched the
BRAIN initiative to
revolutionize our
understanding of how the
human brain works.
Thanks to the tireless
efforts of people like Nancy
Reagan, I've never been
more optimistic that we are
getting closer to the day
when every single patient
can get the care they
need and deserve.
I've never been more
optimistic that we will one
day find a cure for
devastating diseases
like Alzheimer's.
And I can think of no better
way to honor our former
First Lady's legacy than
by working together,
as one nation,
toward that goal.
Thanks, everybody.